offices/chronicler/index.md, before:

---
title: Kingdom Chronicler
excerpt: Recording the kingdom's events for posterity
toc: true
toc_label: Contents
featureimg: images/foo/test.jpg
featurealt: thing
---


# What a Chronicler does

The Chronicler is responsible for all official Kingdom publications, in particular, the Kingdom Newsletter: the <em>Dragon's Tale</em>. [Learn more](

## Kingdom Newsletter

SCA Inc and SCA affiliate members: read _Dragon's Tale_, and every other kingdom's newsletter, online!

Visit [SCA membership portal](https://members.sca.org/apps/#SignIn) and log in with the same login information that you use to renew your membership.

Affiliate members: From the membership portal, log in with the username "affiliate" and password "affiliate", all lowercase. Look for Drachenwald's newsletter.

If you have any difficulties or questions, please email <script type="text/javascript">document.write(String.fromCharCode(60,97,32,104,114,101,102,61,39,109,97,105,108,116,111,58,109,101,109,98,101,114,115,104,105,112,64,115,99,97,46,111,114,103,39,62,109,101,109,98,101,114,115,104,105,112,64,115,99,97,46,111,114,103,60,47,97,62));</script>. Include your modern name, membership number, and a brief explanation of the problem you're experiencing.

## Policies and Reports

<ul>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/chronicler-policies.md %}">Kingdom Chronicler Policies</a> </li>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/report-template.md %}">Template for Quarterly Reports</a></li>
</ul>

## Local Chroniclers

Local branches are encouraged to have a newsletter, though it is only <em>required</em>for Baronies and above.

<ul>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/guidelines-local-chroniclers.md %}">Guidelines for Local Chroniclers</a></li>
<li><a href="https://www.sca.org/chronicler/">William Blackfox Awards</a><br />The William Blackfox awards are given each year to recognise excellence in local newsletters and their contributors. Each year, the Kingdom Chronicler nominates local newsletters, articles and artwork produced within the Kingdom for the various awards, so make sure you always send a copy (as required by policy). For more details on the awards, follow the link above.</li>
</ul>

## Release Forms

[Release forms]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/release-forms.md %}) are needed for original articles and artwork, and from persons appearing on photographs.

# Event Announcements

For an event to be "official" for business like awards, and proclamation of laws, you must publish the event on the Kingdom Calendar and send an announcement to the _Dragon's Tale_.

<ul>
<!-- <li><a href="/content/planning-and-scheduling-events">Planning and scheduling events</a> FIXME</li> -->
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link events/calendar-add.html %}" target="_blank">Request a date on the Kingdom Calendar</a></li>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/guidelines-event-announcement.md %}">Event announcement guidelines</a></li>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/make-event-official.md %}">Make sure your event is official</a></li>
</ul>




{% include officer-contacts.html %}

Commit message:

Link fixes on chronicler index page

offices/chronicler/index.md, after:

---
title: Kingdom Chronicler
excerpt: Recording the kingdom's events for posterity
toc: true
toc_label: Contents
featureimg: images/foo/test.jpg
featurealt: thing
---


# What a Chronicler does

The Chronicler is responsible for all official Kingdom publications, in particular, the Kingdom Newsletter: the <em>Dragon's Tale</em>. [Learn more]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/kingdom-newsletter.md %})

## Kingdom Newsletter

SCA Inc and SCA affiliate members: read _Dragon's Tale_, and every other kingdom's newsletter, online!

Visit [SCA membership portal](https://members.sca.org/apps/#SignIn) and log in with the same login information that you use to renew your membership.

Affiliate members: From the membership portal, log in with the username "affiliate" and password "affiliate", all lowercase. Look for Drachenwald's newsletter.

If you have any difficulties or questions, please email <script type="text/javascript">document.write(String.fromCharCode(60,97,32,104,114,101,102,61,39,109,97,105,108,116,111,58,109,101,109,98,101,114,115,104,105,112,64,115,99,97,46,111,114,103,39,62,109,101,109,98,101,114,115,104,105,112,64,115,99,97,46,111,114,103,60,47,97,62));</script>. Include your modern name, membership number, and a brief explanation of the problem you're experiencing.

## Policies and Reports

<ul>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/chronicler-policies.md %}">Kingdom Chronicler Policies</a> </li>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/report-template.md %}">Template for Quarterly Reports</a></li>
</ul>

## Local Chroniclers

Local branches are encouraged to have a newsletter, though it is only <em>required</em>for Baronies and above.

<ul>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/guidelines-local-chroniclers.md %}">Guidelines for Local Chroniclers</a></li>
<li><a href="https://www.sca.org/chronicler/">William Blackfox Awards</a><br />The William Blackfox awards are given each year to recognise excellence in local newsletters and their contributors. Each year, the Kingdom Chronicler nominates local newsletters, articles and artwork produced within the Kingdom for the various awards, so make sure you always send a copy (as required by policy). For more details on the awards, follow the link above.</li>
</ul>

## Release Forms

[Release forms]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/release-forms.md %}) are needed for original articles and artwork, and from persons appearing on photographs.

# Event Announcements

For an event to be "official" for business like awards, and proclamation of laws, you must publish the event on the Kingdom Calendar and send an announcement to the [_Dragon's Tale_]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/kingdom-newsletter.md %}.

<ul>
<!-- <li><a href="/content/planning-and-scheduling-events">Planning and scheduling events</a> FIXME</li> -->
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link events/calendar-add.html %}" target="_blank">Request a date on the Kingdom Calendar</a></li>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/guidelines-event-announcement.md %}">Event announcement guidelines</a></li>
<li><a href="{{ site.baseurl }}{% link offices/chronicler/make-event-official.md %}">Make sure your event is official</a></li>
</ul>




{% include officer-contacts.html %}
